README.md, before:

# ☁️  Google Cloud MCP

Google Cloud offers a suite of specialized
[Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction)
servers that make Google Cloud products directly accessible to AI agents.

Our MCP servers work with any tool that can act as an MCP client, including
Claude Desktop, Cline, Cursor, Gemini CLI, Gemini Code Assist, Visual Studio
Code Copilot Editor, Windsurf, and more.

**Available MCP Servers**

| Name       | Description |
|-------------------|-------------|
| gcloud MCP        | Interact with Google Cloud via the gcloud CLI using natural language prompts. |
| Observability MCP | Access Google Cloud Observability APIs to query logs, metrics, and traces. |


## 🚀 Getting Started

To get started with an MCP server, make sure you have the following installed:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org)
- [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install)

## ✨ Setup your MCP server

To use an MCP server, add the following configuration:

```
"mcpServers": {
  "gcloud-mcp": {
    "command": "npx",
    "args": ["-y", "@google-cloud/gcloud-mcp"]
  },
  "observability-mcp": {
    "command": "npx",
    "args": ["-y", "@google-cloud/observability-mcp"]
  }
}
```

Here are specific instructions for some popular tools:

### Gemini CLI and Gemini Code Assist

To configure Gemini CLI or Gemini Code Assist to use the gcloud MCP server as a
[Gemini CLI extension](https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli/blob/main/docs/extension.md), run:

```
$ npm i -g @google-cloud/gcloud-mcp
$ gcloud-mcp init --agent=gemini-cli
```

This will create the following files in your current working directory:

- `.gemini/extensions/gcloud-mcp/gemini-extension.json`
- `.gemini/extensions/gcloud-mcp/GEMINI.md`

### Claude Desktop

To configure Claude Desktop to use an MCP server, edit the
`claude_desktop_config.json` file. You can open or create this file from the
**Claude > Settings** menu. Select the **Developer** tab, then click **Edit Config**.

### Cline

To configure Cline to use an MCP server, edit the
`cline_mcp_settings.json` file. You can open or create this file by clicking the
MCP Servers icon at the top of the Cline pane, then clicking the **Configure MCP
Servers button**.

### Cursor

To configure Cursor to use an MCP server, edit either the file
`.cursor/mcp.json` (to configure only a specific project) or the file
`~/.cursor/mcp.json` (to make the MCP server available in all projects).

### Visual Studio Code Copilot

To configure a single project, edit the `.vscode/mcp.json` file in your
workspace.

To make the server available in every project you open, edit your
[user settings](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/personalize-vscode).

## 💫 Other Google Cloud MCP Servers

You can also try our other MCP servers:

- [Cloud Run MCP](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/cloud-run-mcp)
- [Databases MCP](https://github.com/googleapis/genai-toolbox)
- [GKE MCP](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/gke-mcp)

## 👥 Contributing

We welcome contributions to the gcloud MCP Server! Whether you're fixing bugs,
sharing feedback, or improving documentation, your contributions are
welcome.

Please read our
[Contributing Guide](https://github.com/googleapis/gcloud-mcp/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
to get started.

Commit message:

feat: add denylist read me

README.md, after:

# ☁️ Google Cloud MCP

Google Cloud offers a suite of specialized
[Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction)
servers that make Google Cloud products directly accessible to AI agents.

Our MCP servers work with any tool that can act as an MCP client, including
Claude Desktop, Cline, Cursor, Gemini CLI, Gemini Code Assist, Visual Studio
Code Copilot Editor, Windsurf, and more.

**Available MCP Servers**

| Name              | Description                                                                   |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| gcloud MCP        | Interact with Google Cloud via the gcloud CLI using natural language prompts. |
| Observability MCP | Access Google Cloud Observability APIs to query logs, metrics, and traces.    |

## 🚀 Getting Started

To get started with an MCP server, make sure you have the following installed:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org)
- [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install)

## ✨ Setup your MCP server

To use an MCP server, add the following configuration:

```
"mcpServers": {
  "gcloud-mcp": {
    "command": "npx",
    "args": ["-y", "@google-cloud/gcloud-mcp"]
  },
  "observability-mcp": {
    "command": "npx",
    "args": ["-y", "@google-cloud/observability-mcp"]
  }
}
```

Here are specific instructions for some popular tools:

### Gemini CLI and Gemini Code Assist

To configure Gemini CLI or Gemini Code Assist to use the gcloud MCP server as a
[Gemini CLI extension](https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli/blob/main/docs/extension.md), run:

```
$ npm i -g @google-cloud/gcloud-mcp
$ gcloud-mcp init --agent=gemini-cli
```

This will create the following files in your current working directory:

- `.gemini/extensions/gcloud-mcp/gemini-extension.json`
- `.gemini/extensions/gcloud-mcp/GEMINI.md`

### Claude Desktop

To configure Claude Desktop to use an MCP server, edit the
`claude_desktop_config.json` file. You can open or create this file from the
**Claude > Settings** menu. Select the **Developer** tab, then click **Edit Config**.

### Cline

To configure Cline to use an MCP server, edit the
`cline_mcp_settings.json` file. You can open or create this file by clicking the
MCP Servers icon at the top of the Cline pane, then clicking the **Configure MCP
Servers button**.

### Cursor

To configure Cursor to use an MCP server, edit either the file
`.cursor/mcp.json` (to configure only a specific project) or the file
`~/.cursor/mcp.json` (to make the MCP server available in all projects).

### Visual Studio Code Copilot

To configure a single project, edit the `.vscode/mcp.json` file in your
workspace.

To make the server available in every project you open, edit your
[user settings](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/personalize-vscode).

## Denylist

The denylist feature provides a powerful security mechanism to control which `gcloud`
commands can be executed by the AI agent. By default, the agent has access to a wide range of commands, some of which could make
significant changes to your cloud environment. The denylist allows you to explicitly block certain commands or command groups, preventing unintended or unauthorized operations.
This is particularly useful for production environments or when you want to enforce a more restrictive set of permissions for the AI agent.

gcloud-MCP supports all GCP API operations by default but some commands poses as a security threat. The full default deny list can be found below.
| Command |
|---|
| compute start-iap-tunnel |
| compute connect-to-serial-port |
| compute tpus tpu-vm ssh |
| compute tpus queued-resources ssh |
| compute ssh |
| cloud-shell ssh |
| workstations ssh |
| app instances ssh |

## 💫 Other Google Cloud MCP Servers

You can also try our other MCP servers:

- [Cloud Run MCP](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/cloud-run-mcp)
- [Databases MCP](https://github.com/googleapis/genai-toolbox)
- [GKE MCP](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/gke-mcp)

## 👥 Contributing

We welcome contributions to the gcloud MCP Server! Whether you're fixing bugs,
sharing feedback, or improving documentation, your contributions are
welcome.

Please read our
[Contributing Guide](https://github.com/googleapis/gcloud-mcp/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
to get started.
